Okay a few more tools left now.
We have our editor to code our BookStore application,
our building tool to package it, the application server to execute it,
a database to store some books in.
We now need to pick up a few frameworks to test our code.
Despite tests being very important,
we have less testing frameworks to choose from,
in fact for unit tests we can either use JUnit or TestNG.
And for integration tests we only have Arquillian.
In this course we will be using JUnit and Arquillian.
JUnit is a unit test framework for the Java
programming language created in 1997.
JUnit has been important in test-driven development and is
one of a family of unit testing frameworks,
which is collectively known as XUnit.
JUnit is good for unit testing, so if the code to test as external dependencies,
we need to know the framework to mock those dependencies.
At the time of recording this course, JUnit 5 is still not final,
so I will use the latest table 4.
12 version.
We won't need to download or install JUnit because we
will use Maven to do that for us.
If you don't know JUnit I recommend to read the Getting Started section.
It explains step by step how to write and execute a unit test.
Arquillian is also the de facto framework when it comes to integration testing.
JUnit is good at unit testing, but we need to mark external dependencies,
not with Arquillian.
The idea is that the tests are executed inside the container,
in our case WildFly.
That's why it's perfect for Java EE.
The test case is executed inside the container and therefore
can use all its dependencies and services,
but Arquillian can also be used for remote testing.
This means that the tests are executed outside the container,
but interact with a remote application through HTTP,
perfect for testing REST APIs, for example.
To get started with Arquillian, make sure to follow the Getting Started section.
It will explain how to set up, write, and execute an integration test.
Then check the documentation.
It is very rich because Arquillian adds several extensions, such as JUnit that we will be using.